README.md, before:

# CarND-Controls-MPC
Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program

---
## Project Rubric Points Addressed
### Compilation: see Dependencies and instructions below

### Implementaion:
#### Model
The Model Predictive Controller (MPC) takes global way points and the vehicle state ( x, y, psi, v) provided by the simulator and uses these to calculate the cross-track error (CTE) and psi error (EPSI). Way Points are transformed from Global map coordinates to vehicle coordinates, and a 3rd-degree polynomial is fit to the points to yield a desired trajectory. 

To control for latency, the current state and errors are used to estimate and state and errors at the next time step, t+1,then passed as the vehicles "state" to the MPC. The MPC calculates a cost function, based on the state and errors, and returns the acuator values that minimize the cost function. The acuator values are then passed to the simulator for vehicle control.





## Dependencies

* cmake >= 3.5
 * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1(mac, linux), 3.81(Windows)
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
* [uWebSockets](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets)
  * Run either `install-mac.sh` or `install-ubuntu.sh`.
  * If you install from source, checkout to commit `e94b6e1`, i.e.
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets
    cd uWebSockets
    git checkout e94b6e1
    ```
    Some function signatures have changed in v0.14.x. See [this PR](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-MPC-Project/pull/3) for more details.

* **Ipopt and CppAD:** Please refer to [this document](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-MPC-Project/blob/master/install_Ipopt_CppAD.md) for installation instructions.
* [Eigen](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page). This is already part of the repo so you shouldn't have to worry about it.
* Simulator. You can download these from the [releases tab](https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car-sim/releases).
* Not a dependency but read the [DATA.md](./DATA.md) for a description of the data sent back from the simulator.


## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./mpc`.

## Tips

1. It's recommended to test the MPC on basic examples to see if your implementation behaves as desired. One possible example
is the vehicle starting offset of a straight line (reference). If the MPC implementation is correct, after some number of timesteps
(not too many) it should find and track the reference line.
2. The `lake_track_waypoints.csv` file has the waypoints of the lake track. You could use this to fit polynomials and points and see of how well your model tracks curve. NOTE: This file might be not completely in sync with the simulator so your solution should NOT depend on it.
3. For visualization this C++ [matplotlib wrapper](https://github.com/lava/matplotlib-cpp) could be helpful.)
4.  Tips for setting up your environment are available [here](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/0949fca6-b379-42af-a919-ee50aa304e6a/lessons/f758c44c-5e40-4e01-93b5-1a82aa4e044f/concepts/23d376c7-0195-4276-bdf0-e02f1f3c665d)
5. **VM Latency:** Some students have reported differences in behavior using VM's ostensibly a result of latency.  Please let us know if issues arise as a result of a VM environment.

## Editor Settings

We've purposefully kept editor configuration files out of this repo in order to
keep it as simple and environment agnostic as possible. However, we recommend
using the following settings:

* indent using spaces
* set tab width to 2 spaces (keeps the matrices in source code aligned)

## Code Style

Please (do your best to) stick to [Google's C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).

## Project Instructions and Rubric

Note: regardless of the changes you make, your project must be buildable using
cmake and make!

More information is only accessible by people who are already enrolled in Term 2
of CarND. If you are enrolled, see [the project page](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/f1820894-8322-4bb3-81aa-b26b3c6dcbaf/lessons/b1ff3be0-c904-438e-aad3-2b5379f0e0c3/concepts/1a2255a0-e23c-44cf-8d41-39b8a3c8264a)
for instructions and the project rubric.

## Hints!

* You don't have to follow this directory structure, but if you do, your work
  will span all of the .cpp files here. Keep an eye out for TODOs.

## Call for IDE Profiles Pull Requests

Help your fellow students!

We decided to create Makefiles with cmake to keep this project as platform
agnostic as possible. Similarly, we omitted IDE profiles in order to we ensure
that students don't feel pressured to use one IDE or another.

However! I'd love to help people get up and running with their IDEs of choice.
If you've created a profile for an IDE that you think other students would
appreciate, we'd love to have you add the requisite profile files and
instructions to ide_profiles/. For example if you wanted to add a VS Code
profile, you'd add:

* /ide_profiles/vscode/.vscode
* /ide_profiles/vscode/README.md

The README should explain what the profile does, how to take advantage of it,
and how to install it.

Frankly, I've never been involved in a project with multiple IDE profiles
before. I believe the best way to handle this would be to keep them out of the
repo root to avoid clutter. My expectation is that most profiles will include
instructions to copy files to a new location to get picked up by the IDE, but
that's just a guess.

One last note here: regardless of the IDE used, every submitted project must
still be compilable with cmake and make./

## How to write a README
A well written README file can enhance your project and portfolio.  Develop your abilities to create professional README files by completing [this free course](https://www.udacity.com/course/writing-readmes--ud777).

Commit message:

Ploy fitting and Latency discussion

README.md, after:

# CarND-Controls-MPC
Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program

---
## Project Rubric Points Addressed
### Compilation: see Dependencies and instructions below

### Implementaion:
#### Model
The Model Predictive Controller (MPC) takes global way points and the vehicle state ( x, y, psi, v) provided by the simulator and uses these to calculate the cross-track error (CTE) and psi error (EPSI). Way Points are transformed from Global map coordinates to vehicle coordinates, and a 3rd-degree polynomial is fit to the points to yield a desired trajectory. 

To control for latency, the current state and errors are used to estimate and state and errors at the next time step, t+1,then passed as the vehicles "state" to the MPC. The MPC calculates a cost function, based on the state and errors, and returns the acuator values that minimize the cost function. The acuator values (steering angle and acceleration) are then passed to the simulator for vehicle control.

#### Time Horizon = Timestep and Elapsed Duration
The timestep length (N) and elapsed duration (dt) used in the final implementaion was N=10.0 and dt = 0.1. Originally a N = 15.0 was used and work at slower speed (10 and 20 mph) but at faster speed the target trajectory tended to scew and resulted in vehicle occiliations. Other values were tried, N = 8 and N = 5, but these were insufficient in length for calculating a trajectory ato minimize cost function and were ustable (i.e. the vehicles occilated until it drove off the track). 

A dt value of 0.1 was used because it match the simulated latency (see below). 

#### Polynomial Fitting and MPC Preprocessing
Prior to MPC processing, way points from the simulator were tranformed from global coordinates to vehilce coordinates using a Homogeneous Transformation (as discussed in the particle filter project lesson 14). A 3rd degree polynomial was then fit to the transformed points using 'polyfit()' function. 

#### Model Predictive Control with Latency
Following the Slack discussion [here]("https://carnd.slack.com/archives/C54DV4BK6/p1538209080000100"), latency of 100 miliseconds was handled by calculating the a new state vector for time = t+1, using the kinematic equations disscussed in Lesson 18. The new state vector was then passed to the MPC to solve. Basically, solving control imputs for a time, one step into the future. Staying consistent with the 'dt'f value in the MPC and 100 milisecond latency, a time step of 0.1 seconds was used. 


## Dependencies

* cmake >= 3.5
 * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1(mac, linux), 3.81(Windows)
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
* [uWebSockets](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets)
  * Run either `install-mac.sh` or `install-ubuntu.sh`.
  * If you install from source, checkout to commit `e94b6e1`, i.e.
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets
    cd uWebSockets
    git checkout e94b6e1
    ```
    Some function signatures have changed in v0.14.x. See [this PR](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-MPC-Project/pull/3) for more details.

* **Ipopt and CppAD:** Please refer to [this document](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-MPC-Project/blob/master/install_Ipopt_CppAD.md) for installation instructions.
* [Eigen](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page). This is already part of the repo so you shouldn't have to worry about it.
* Simulator. You can download these from the [releases tab](https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car-sim/releases).
* Not a dependency but read the [DATA.md](./DATA.md) for a description of the data sent back from the simulator.


## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./mpc`.

## Tips

1. It's recommended to test the MPC on basic examples to see if your implementation behaves as desired. One possible example
is the vehicle starting offset of a straight line (reference). If the MPC implementation is correct, after some number of timesteps
(not too many) it should find and track the reference line.
2. The `lake_track_waypoints.csv` file has the waypoints of the lake track. You could use this to fit polynomials and points and see of how well your model tracks curve. NOTE: This file might be not completely in sync with the simulator so your solution should NOT depend on it.
3. For visualization this C++ [matplotlib wrapper](https://github.com/lava/matplotlib-cpp) could be helpful.)
4.  Tips for setting up your environment are available [here](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/0949fca6-b379-42af-a919-ee50aa304e6a/lessons/f758c44c-5e40-4e01-93b5-1a82aa4e044f/concepts/23d376c7-0195-4276-bdf0-e02f1f3c665d)
5. **VM Latency:** Some students have reported differences in behavior using VM's ostensibly a result of latency.  Please let us know if issues arise as a result of a VM environment.

## Editor Settings

We've purposefully kept editor configuration files out of this repo in order to
keep it as simple and environment agnostic as possible. However, we recommend
using the following settings:

* indent using spaces
* set tab width to 2 spaces (keeps the matrices in source code aligned)

## Code Style

Please (do your best to) stick to [Google's C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).

## Project Instructions and Rubric

Note: regardless of the changes you make, your project must be buildable using
cmake and make!

More information is only accessible by people who are already enrolled in Term 2
of CarND. If you are enrolled, see [the project page](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/f1820894-8322-4bb3-81aa-b26b3c6dcbaf/lessons/b1ff3be0-c904-438e-aad3-2b5379f0e0c3/concepts/1a2255a0-e23c-44cf-8d41-39b8a3c8264a)
for instructions and the project rubric.

## Hints!

* You don't have to follow this directory structure, but if you do, your work
  will span all of the .cpp files here. Keep an eye out for TODOs.

## Call for IDE Profiles Pull Requests

Help your fellow students!

We decided to create Makefiles with cmake to keep this project as platform
agnostic as possible. Similarly, we omitted IDE profiles in order to we ensure
that students don't feel pressured to use one IDE or another.

However! I'd love to help people get up and running with their IDEs of choice.
If you've created a profile for an IDE that you think other students would
appreciate, we'd love to have you add the requisite profile files and
instructions to ide_profiles/. For example if you wanted to add a VS Code
profile, you'd add:

* /ide_profiles/vscode/.vscode
* /ide_profiles/vscode/README.md

The README should explain what the profile does, how to take advantage of it,
and how to install it.

Frankly, I've never been involved in a project with multiple IDE profiles
before. I believe the best way to handle this would be to keep them out of the
repo root to avoid clutter. My expectation is that most profiles will include
instructions to copy files to a new location to get picked up by the IDE, but
that's just a guess.

One last note here: regardless of the IDE used, every submitted project must
still be compilable with cmake and make./

## How to write a README
A well written README file can enhance your project and portfolio.  Develop your abilities to create professional README files by completing [this free course](https://www.udacity.com/course/writing-readmes--ud777).
